# SalesTaxChallenge
Sales Tax Task for itemis AG recruitment

This task was designed to create a simple program that can calculate the sales tax of certain items, depending on the item type, and to calcualte the total cost of a shopping list after the taxation itself. Another requirment was to calcualte the total tax seperately. The task proved to be very simple, although the research before doing the task was unnecessarily complicating the work; GitHub proved to be useless, as most people like showing off irrelevant code.
The task was done by taking each line from a text file (notepad) and dividing the line into tokens, which were based on the spaces between each word/number. These tokens would represent 3 things, the quantity of the items, the name of the item, and the price of the item. Once you get all 3 of these tokens, the task becomes very systematic, and simple arithemetic is applied. The items were divided into 4 types, imported others, imported tax free, tax free, and others. Criteria of the taxation is in the coding challenge pdf. To figure out what sort of taxation needs to be done, the code starts off by dividing the text file into lines, and checks the quanitity of the item, to see how many times to loop inside the function. It then checks the number in the end of the line, by taking the value after the "at" in the sentence. Booleans for imported, chocolate, book, and pills were created to classify the items, by using the simple function of "contains" that checks wether a substring is in a string. The booleans are then used to classify the items and do the arithmetics, and at the same time printing the output as the code goes. Finally when it comes to the rounding phase of the program and the tax, an algorithm was implemented to always round up the tax, to yield similar output to the task handout. The algorithm starts off by multplying the origianl price of the object with the tax percentage, either 5, 10, or 15 percent, and then then the method math.ceil was used to make sure that the new total tax was rounded up, similar to real life where an individual would prefer to get taxed a little more than less. the value was divided by the number which was in the handout which is 0.05, and multiplied by the same value, 0.05, to get the tax upscaled. And finally, decimalformat was used to always yield a result that is no more than 2 decimal points.
The task was really fun to tackle, had some challenges, mainly with the rounding algorithm, but overall was quite simple to get through.
Thank You for your Time, and hopefully the final executed code is up to standard. :)
